a helicopter spinning out of control
and going down sounds like a nightmare
but just imagine this uncontrolled
helicopter is falling into the mouth of
an active gurgling volcano unfortunately
this isn't a tale created by my vivid
imagination or a new episode of a
disaster TV series it's a true story
that happened more than 20 years ago
as soon as craig husking was tall enough
to reach the pedals his father started
to teach him how to fly a helicopter no
wonder at the age of 16
the teenager became one of the youngest
licensed helicopter pilots ever besides
he was just as skilled in flying
different kinds of airplanes see planes
and gliders eventually Hosking became a
successful aerial photographer who also
helped to make feature films and TV
series so when he was asked to
participate in the shooting of a new
big-budget movie about volcano eruptions
he readily agreed there were two other
members on this little team freelance
cameraman Michael Benson and freelance
film technician Christopher Dundee the
cruise helicopter was the bell 206 b3
equipped with two cameras the helicopter
was supposed to do filming runs of the
Kilauea Volcano on the Hawaiian Islands
in particular the filming team was
interested in the poo ovett yeah that's
what it says right here
whoo ooo although there was no active
lava flow in the vent an orange pool
glowing 120 feet down in a pit on the
side of the crater as well as The
Associated smoke Club was enough to
provide all the excitement the
filmmakers needed it was Saturday
November 21st 1992 everything went as
planned until the helicopter started its
third pass over the volcano just a
couple of seconds before the crew
reached the center of the crater things
went really bad really fast
first Hosking noticed that the main
rotor output started to decrease then
almost immediately the rotor caution
sign lit up it seemed like the
helicopter was
serious technical problems in any other
situation such an experienced pilot as
Hosking still could have flown over to
the outside of the crater but
unfortunately in this case the wall
surrounding the helicopter were so steep
that such a manoeuvre would have led to
a fatal rollover
it happened lightning fast in his
attempts to save the day husking
accidentally got into a cloud of
volcanic steam and smoke the pilot tried
to leave it by Auto rotating the
helicopter down to the bottom of the
crater he knew that if a helicopter
loses all its engine power the machine
can still land safely because the air
will be moving up through the rotors and
it probably would have saved their
helicopter as well if the main rotor
hadn't struck the craters rock wall and
separated from the airframe after that
things went completely awry when the
helicopter spun out of control and
crashed inside the volcano about 150
feet below the craters rim however it
must have been a lucky day for the
filming crew locked inside not only did
the helicopter narrowly avoid dipping
into a hot bubbling lava pool but all
three men survived and had no serious
injuries except for some bruises and
minor cuts but the situation was still
extremely dangerous
the men were stuck inside a volcano that
was emitting poisonous gases like
sulphur dioxide in hydrogen sulfide
flammable and explosive there fatally
toxic for people the only thing that
saved the filming crew members was that
they crashed in a part of the crater
where fresh air was leaking inside over
the rim after choking on the noxious
volcano gases for several hours the
filmmakers decided to make a run for it
and started to climb up towards the
craters rim but the interior walls
crumbled so easily that every single
move could cause a rockslide husking
returned to the helicopter and
miraculously made the radio work by
connecting it to a spare battery after
the park officials were informed of the
crash a daring Fire Department
helicopter pilot flew inside the crater
low enough for Hosking to scramble a
bore
but the two other team members were in a
much more dangerous situation the
problem was that they decided to
continue their climb and when the
helicopter arrived they were stuck on a
high ridge about 80 feet away from the
rim obscured by the cloud of dense gases
they had to be left behind duddy and
Benson spent an agonizing night
listening to the lava gurgling not far
beneath a-- breathing in toxic gases and
trying to come to terms with their fate
however on Sunday afternoon daddy
couldn't stand it any longer in despair
he decided to continue the climb Benson
who had found a secure to by 4-foot
crevasse some fifty feet away from his
companion realized that it was too risky
and chose to remain where he was duddy
left alone you can imagine Benson
shocked when just a couple of hours
later he saw a body that careened past
him and disappeared in the gurgling lava
he was sure it was duddy who had lost
his footing and plunged into the abyss
luckily that wasn't the case 27 hours
after the crash at 2:30 p.m. duddy
reached the rim of the crater he was
immediately taken to the hospital but
was released one day later as for the
thing Benson had taken for his
colleagues body it was a survival
package dropped by the rescue team who
hoped that it would miraculously land
next to the cameraman by Monday morning
Benson had been inside the crater for
two days without food or proper sleep
terrified and exhausted even worse all
the rescue attempts failed due to the
heavy rain and fog that covered the
volcano finally at 9 a.m. on Monday
during a tiny break in the weather
helicopter pilot Tom Hoffman noticed
Benson before the fog closed back up
almost immediately at least now it was
clear where the man was Hauptmann
lowered his helicopter into the vent and
used a 150 foot rope with a net to fish
the cameraman out with no visibility
whatsoever the pilot had to rely on his
senses to rescue Benson
why when he felt the Rope tighten he
pulled it up and there was the cameraman
Benson was taken to Hilo Hospital
intensive care unit in stable condition
and was treated for chemical pneumonia
caused by the inhalation of the toxic
gases as well as dehydration and
exposure the cause of the accident could
have been the volcanic gas which caused
a partial loss of engine power only
thanks to the pilot skills the filming
crew members got away alive with no
serious injuries however unique this
helicopter crash wasn't the only case
where people survived a fall into a
volcano crater in 2007 a group of people
was exploring all Doyen ol NJ an active
volcano in Tanzania when a porter of the
group fell into a crevasse filled with
lava amazingly the man not only survived
but also climbed back to safety on his
own his legs and arms were burned but he
was alive what saved him was the
extraordinary cold lava of old dongho
lenggang well it's probably not what you
would consider cold but believe me with
a temperature of 950 degrees Fahrenheit
the lava was exceptionally cool instead
of the red orange flowing liquid that
probably comes to your mind
this cold lava is black and slow-moving
that's why the man managed to throw his
pack down and stand on it until he
finally climbed out of the crevasse
another man fell as deep as 2,000 feet
into the crater of Mount st. Helens and
remained unscathed in 2008 John Slemp
along with his son and a friend went up
to the craters rim with their
snowmobiles to enjoy the breathtaking
view at one moment an overhanging shelf
of snow under slumps feet broke loose
and the man dropped 200 feet down
however when he tried to climb back the
snow fell apart beneath him and he
dropped another 1,500 feet down when
slump was rescued by a helicopter team
just a couple of hours later the only
injuries he suffered were a
hyper-extended leg and several minor
cuts
[Music]
then there was the woman who during a
Mount Batur hike in Bali suddenly fell
off the platform straight into the
crater she was lucky that those around
her had a lightning-fast reaction seeing
that she landed about a hundred thirty
feet below the platform other tourists
formed an arm and arm human chain that
reached the woman and pulled her out
besides they managed to keep her alive
until the medical team arrived now have
I forgotten about any other people
falling into volcanoes and surviving
this blood chilling experience actually
I think the blood would boil now let's
not split hairs no matter if so let me
know down in the comments if you learned
something new today then give this video
a like and share it with a friend but
hey don't go diving into a volcano just
yet we have over two thousand cool
videos for you to check out all you have
to do is pick the left or right video
click on it and enjoy stay on the bright
side of life
you